# Farkle-Neural-Network
This project aims to build (using pytorch) and train a Neural Network to play the dice game Farkle. In this file I will first outline the structure of the NN, its training and  then explain the remaining code in the repository and set out how to use the network. I will assume a reader is familiar with the rules of farkle, for those who are not please read here https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Farkle.

There are fundementaly only two decisions the must be made in any given turn in Farkle:
  1. which dice to score after rolling
  2. whether to continue rolling or bank the score.

The agent is provided with a list of legal options in each phase and calculates a normalized expected value for each, and selects the option with the highest expected value. The Network itself is a two headed network with has two hidden layers with 16 neurons each. It takes 13 inputs. the neural network is initialized in FarkleNeuralNetwork.py.

Training is done by evolution. 200 agents are randomly generated using a xavier normal distribution. They are then sorted into groups of between 2 and 10, randomly, and play 10 games in one epoch, before they are reshuffled. This repeats 20 times in one generation for 200 generations. after each generation the best 20 agents are selected according to a fitness function which is a weighted sum of number of wins normalized by the number of players in the group, and the average number of points per turn, again normalized. These agents are retained and another 180 agents generated by randomly mutating their weights and biases. the final 20 best agents after 200 generations are included in this repository.

The game's structure is set out in game.py, which initializes a class game, with attributes including score, N_players, Winning_score etc. the agents.py file initializes 3 classes of agent, human, random, and neural. each has functions to choose an action given a certain state, for the human this is done through inputs, for random it is obviously random, from a list of legal inputs. This allows for the exact same game archiitecture across all types of agent. The game_loop.py file sets out the turn cycle and actually carries out a game. this can be with any number of human, random or neural agents, allowing a neural agent to be benchmarked against a random agent.

#prerequisites:
This project requires **Python 3.8+** and the following external libraries. You can install them via `pip`:

```bash
pip install torch numpy
